Enhance service registration scenario coverage (#13209)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/dependency-injection.md

Dependency injection addresses these problems through:

> * The use of an interface to abstract the dependency implementation.

Reviewer: Perhaps:

```suggestion
* The use of an interface or base class to abstract the dependency implementation.
```

> [!WARNING]
> When using a scoped service in a middleware, inject the service into the `Invoke` or `InvokeAsync` method. Don't inject via constructor injection because it forces the service to behave like a singleton. For more information, see <xref:fundamentals/middleware/index>.

### Singleton

Singleton lifetime services (<xref:Microsoft.AspNet.OData.Builder.ODataModelBuilder.AddSingleton*>) are created the first time they're requested (or when `Startup.ConfigureServices` is run and an instance is specified with the service registration). Every subsequent request uses the same instance. If the app requires singleton behavior, allowing the service container to manage the service's lifetime is recommended. Don't implement the singleton design pattern and provide user code to manage the object's lifetime in the class.

> [!WARNING]
> It's dangerous to resolve a scoped service from a singleton. It may cause the service to have incorrect state when processing subsequent requests.

## Service registration methods

Each service registration extension method offers overloads that are useful in specific scenarios.

> | Method | Automatic<br>object<br>disposal | Mocks for<br>testing | Pass args |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Method | Automatic<br>object<br>disposal | Alternate or multiple implementations | Pass args |
```

Maybe?

Or maybe just drop this column completely? The reasons on why you'd want to use an interface vs a concrete type are numerous and may be beyond the scope of this document (or this section at least). Mocking is one of many reasons.

| ------ | :-----------------------------: | :------------------: | :-------: |

> | `Add{LIFETIME}<{INTERFACE}, {TYPE}>()`<br>Example:<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep, MyDep>();` | Yes | Yes | No |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Add{LIFETIME}<{SERVICE}, {IMPLEMENTATION}>()`<br>Example:<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep, MyDep>();` | Yes | Yes | No |
```

Unfortunately this is used throughout the table so it'll take more than just accepting this suggestion :).

We avoid using "interface" for this in our APIs because it isn't required to be an interface. The service can also be identified by an `abstract` (or even non-`abstract`) class. All that is required by DI is that the *implementation type* must be assignable to a variable/field/etc. of the *service type* (i.e. it implements the interface, or inherits from the class).

Most other uses of "interface" are in examples that actually choose to use an interface which is fine. I'm mostly trying to avoid using that in places that refere to the general concept of a DI service, rather than a specific example. I'll do a quick pass and see if I can find other places where it would be worth updating our language.

And if this is a little too in-the-weeds for this doc, that's fine too, we can leave it.

| `Add{LIFETIME}<{INTERFACE}>(sp => new {TYPE})`<br>Examples:<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep>(sp => new MyDep());`<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep>(sp => new MyDep("A string!"));` | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| `Add{LIFETIME}<{TYPE}>()`<br>Example:<br>`services.AddScoped<MyDep>();` | Yes | No | No |
| `Add{LIFETIME}<{INTERFACE}>(new {TYPE})`<br>Examples:<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep>(new MyDep());`<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep>(new MyDep("A string!"));` | No | Yes | Yes |
| `Add{LIFETIME}(new {TYPE})`<br>Examples:<br>`services.AddScoped(new MyDep());`<br>`services.AddScoped(new MyDep("A string!"));` | No | No | Yes |

For more information on type disposal, see the [Disposal of services](#disposal-of-services) section. For more information on mocking types for testing, see <xref:test/integration-tests#inject-mock-services>.

`TryAdd{LIFETIME}` methods only register the service if there isn't already an implementation registered for the service.

> In the following example, the first line registers `MyDependency` for `IMyDependency`. The second line no-ops because `IMyDependency` already has a registered type:

Reviewer: I know I used it in my comment but is "no-ops" a phrase we're comfortable with? I know that sometimes jargon terms can be problematic, but perhaps this is common enough. Another option would be

```suggestion
In the following example, the first line registers `MyDependency` for `IMyDependency`. The second line has no effect because `IMyDependency` already has a registered implementation:
```

(with a similar change to the code comment below)

Reviewer: We should also clarify what we mean by "registered type". Plus we use "... implementation registered for the service" above. My above suggestion in re: "no-ops" incorporates that, but if you don't want to take that change here's one without the 'no-ops' change ;)

```suggestion
In the following example, the first line registers `MyDependency` for `IMyDependency`. The second line no-ops because `IMyDependency` already has a registered implementation:
```

```csharp
services.AddSingleton<IMyDependency, MyDependency>();
// The following line no-ops:
services.TryAddSingleton<IMyDependency, DifferentDependency>();
```

For more information, see:

* <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Extensions.ServiceCollectionDescriptorExtensions.TryAdd*>
* <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Extensions.ServiceCollectionDescriptorExtensions.TryAddTransient*>
* <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Extensions.ServiceCollectionDescriptorExtensions.TryAddScoped*>
* <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Extensions.ServiceCollectionDescriptorExtensions.TryAddSingleton*>

> [TryAddEnumerable(ServiceDescriptor)](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Extensions.ServiceCollectionDescriptorExtensions.TryAddEnumerable*) methods only register the service if there isn't already a registered instance of a specific implementing type. Multiple services are resolved via `IEnumerable<{INTERFACE}>`; but when registering services, the the developer only wants to add an instance if one of the same type hasn't already been added. Generally, this method is used by library authors to avoid registering two copies of an instance in the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TryAddEnumerable(ServiceDescriptor)](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Extensions.ServiceCollectionDescriptorExtensions.TryAddEnumerable*) methods only register the service if there isn't already an implementation **of the same type**. Multiple services are resolved via `IEnumerable<{SERVICE}>`; but when registering services, the the developer only wants to add an instance if one of the same type hasn't already been added. Generally, this method is used by library authors to avoid registering two copies of an instance in the container.
```

The thing I'm trying to clarify here is that **both** the service type and implementation type have to match for `TryAddEnumerable` to no-op. I may be fumbling for words a bit 😄. Also, maybe too esoteric to worry about here unless confused customers come knocking :)

For example:

```csharp
public interface IFoo {}
public interface IBar {}

public class FooBar: IFoo, IBar {}

// Registers an instance of FooBar
services.TryAddEnumerable(ServiceDescriptor.Singleton<IFoo, FooBar>());
// Registers a SECOND instance of FooBar with it's own lifetime
services.TryAddEnumerable(ServiceDescriptor.Singleton<IBar, FooBar>());
// No-ops because an (IFoo, FooBar) pair already exists.
services.TryAddEnumerable(ServiceDescriptor.Singleton<IFoo, FooBar>());
```

Reviewer: Even if we don't take that full change, we should change to `IEnumerable<{SERVICE}>` as per my comments above about prefering "service" over "implementation"

> In the following example, the first line registers `MyDependency` for `IMyDependency`. The second line registers `DifferentDependency`. The third line no-ops because `IMyDependency` already has a registered type of `MyDependency`:

Reviewer: Same comment re: "no-ops"

**Option B: Table**

| Method | Automatic<br>object<br>disposal | Mocks for<br>testing | Pass args |
| ------ | :-----------------------------: | :---------------------------------: | :---------------------------------: |
| `Add{LIFETIME}<{INTERFACE}, {TYPE}>()`<br>Example:<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep, MyDep>();` | Yes | Yes | No |
| `Add{LIFETIME}<{INTERFACE}>(sp => new {TYPE})`<br>Examples:<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep>(sp => new MyDep());`<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep>(sp => new MyDep("A string!"));` | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| `Add{LIFETIME}<{TYPE}>()`<br>Example:<br>`services.AddScoped<MyDep>();` | Yes | No | No |
| `Add{LIFETIME}<{INTERFACE}>(new {TYPE})`<br>Examples:<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep>(new MyDep());`<br>`services.AddScoped<IMyDep>(new MyDep("A string!"));` | No | Yes | Yes |
| `Add{LIFETIME}(new {TYPE})`<br>Examples:<br>`services.AddScoped(new MyDep());`<br>`services.AddScoped(new MyDep("A string!"));` | No | No | Yes |

For more information on type disposal, see the [Disposal of services](#disposal-of-services) section. For more information on mocking types for testing, see <xref:test/integration-tests#inject-mock-services>.

> `TryAdd{LIFETIME}` methods only register the service if there isn't already a registered instance of the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TryAdd{LIFETIME}` methods only register the service if there isn't already an implementation registered for the service.
```

I want to try and make it clear that TryAdd only checks the `{INTERFACE}` value. For example:

```csharp
services.TryAddSingleton<IFrob, DefaultFrob>();
services.TryAddSingleton<IFrob, AlternateFrob>(); // No-op, even though the implementation type is different
```
